# Habitat

With the continual push for shorter development cycles, combined with continuous delivery, as well as cloud and virtual based infrastructure, containers have become an important part of the continuous delivery pipeline. Docker has established itself as a top contender in this space.

Many of Docker's defaults favour ease of use over security, in saying that, Docker's security considerations follow closely. After working with Docker, the research I have performed in writing these sections on Docker security, while having the chance to [discuss](http://www.se-radio.net/2017/05/se-radio-episode-290-diogo-monica-on-docker-security/) many of my concerns and ideas with the Docker Security team lead, Diogo Mónica, it is my belief that, by default, Docker containers, infrastructure and orchestration provide better security than running your applications in Virtual Machines (VMs). Just be careful when comparing containers with VMs, as this is analogous with comparing apples to oranges.

Docker security provides immense configurability to improve its security posture many times over better than defaults. In order to do this properly, you will have to invest some time and effort into learning about the possible issues, features, and how to configure them. I have attempted to illuminate this specifically in these sections on Docker security.

Docker security is similar to VPS security, except there is a much larger attack surface. This is most noteworthy when running many containers with different packages, many of which do not receive timely security updates, as noted by [banyan](https://www.banyanops.com/blog/analyzing-docker-hub/) and [the morning paper](https://blog.acolyer.org/2017/04/03/a-study-of-security-vulnerabilities-on-docker-hub/).

A monolithic kernel, such as the Linux kernel, which contains tens of millions of lines of code, and can be reached by untrusted applications via all sorts of networking, USB, and driver APIs, has a huge attack surface. Adding Docker into the mix has the potential to expose all these vulnerabilities to each and every running container, and its applications within, thus making the attack surface of the kernel grow exponentially.

Docker leverage's many features that have been in the Linux kernel for years, which provide many security enhancements out of the box. The Docker Security Team are working hard to add additional tooling and techniques to further harden their components, this has become obvious as I have investigated many of them. You still need to know what all the features, tooling and techniques are, and how to use them, in order to determine whether your container security is adequate for your needs.

From the [Docker overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/), it states: “_Docker provides the ability to package and run an application in a loosely isolated environment_”. Later in the same document it says: "_Each container is an isolated and secure application platform, but can be given access to resources running in a different host or container_" leaving the "loosely" out. It continues to say: “_Encapsulate your applications (and supporting components) into Docker containers_”. The meaning of encapsulate is to enclose, but if we are only loosely isolating, then we're not really enclosing are we? I will address this concern in the following Docker sections and subsections.

To start with, I am going to discuss many areas where we can improve container security. At the end of this Docker section I will discuss why application security is of far more concern than container security.

It is my intent to provide a high level over view of the concepts you will need to know in order to create a secure environment for the core Docker components, and your containers. There are many resources available, and the Docker security team is hard at work constantly trying to make the task of improving security around Docker easier.

Do not forget to check the [Additional Resources](#additional-resources) section for material to be consumed in parallel with the Docker Countermeasures, such as the excellent CIS Docker Benchmark, and the [interview](http://www.se-radio.net/2017/05/se-radio-episode-290-diogo-monica-on-docker-security/) I conducted with the Docker Security Team Lead Diogo Mónica.

CISecurity has an [excellent resource](https://benchmarks.cisecurity.org/tools2/docker/CIS_Docker_1.13.0_Benchmark_v1.0.0.pdf) for hardening docker images, which the Docker Security team helped with.